<!-- title: Surviving life -->
<!-- date: 2025-08-26 -->
<!-- time: 22:13 -->
<!-- draft: no -->

Life was killing him so one day John Milton Bleu got out of his room, went to the backyard, boarded his spaceship and just flew off.

His ship can sustain life indefinitely. But its maximum velocity in space is less than one tenth of one percent of the speed of light. It's a small ship, smaller than a basketball field. But it's of sturdy build, engineered to withstand harsh conditions found in any of the almost seventy percent of the known planets. Although with its maximum speed, it's unlikely to reach any planet with its passengers alive, so the sturdiness won't really matter but it gives some sort of comfort — if you ever need it, it's there. It's much like the marketing gimmicks used for cars in olden times: zero to nine sixty miles per hour in one second— no one ever needs that kind of acceleration, unless cops are chasing you, in which case you get a temporary edge but eventually, they will catch you, so it doesn't help in any practical sense, yet people always want the car with the highest acceleration.

John Milton Bleu is in his mid thirties. But anyone including you will mistake him for someone in their early twenties, both by his looks and his personality. He looks younger because of his mother's genetics. And when he grew up, he started missing his younger self, so he started acting like his younger version unintentionally and now it has become permanent.

He had to overcome a lot to grow all the way to his current age. Heartbreak, betrayal, parents dying— all the usual bad things. But he was astute, so he managed to do well professionally. And now, that seems to be paying off. He can escape with a ship he bought with the money he earned from his well enough job.

He decided to never come back. Once he is in space, no one will be able to hurt him— as told by [Matt Kowalski](https://www.imdb.com/name/nm3580541/). He is the only passenger of his ship and therefore, he is the captain. So it will be like living in a single room for the rest of his life all by himself. It sounds kind of sad being alone forever, but Bleu thinks it's actually going to be great. The need for companionship is a thing from the past, nobody really tried to live alone and see how it goes yet, so everyone thinks it's impossible. Humans evolved living in groups so movies and books always portray other people's company as essential for happiness. But according to Bleu, it's not that essential really. It had some advantages in old times, like defense against tigers and lions and cooperation in building houses, but in today's world humans are physically safe from almost all dangers. It's the emotional safety that humans lack. And absolute emotional safety is only possible when you are absolutely alone. And so, Bleu left humankind, for he can't help it anymore.

Sixty four years later, John Milton Bleu died a happy man, somewhere in the Oort Cloud, 605486750245 kilometers away from the Earth. His ships computer can avoid a collision with large objects autonomously, so it will keep flying for untold period of time. His dead body will decay under the influences of the laws of thermodynamics, but his sturdy spaceship will still keep him safe from micrometeorites and the like.

Now I know you want the same thing. But you are in the past, ships like Bleu's aren't commercially available until much later into the future. So what are you going to do? You just have to hang tight and deal with it I guess. Your life won't be as peaceful as Bleu's, but hey, at least you have more greenery around you than today.
